GLOBAL INSIGHT · ALL PROJECTS
2026-06-24T17-58-10

YOU
I was thinking about a toy design. It's a squishy ball with a rubber wrap. Have we talked about this before? The rubber wrap has holes, so when you squeeze it, the holes actually protrude through it. Makes for a interesting combination I stumbled upon. This, when my son had a rubber wrap with the holes, and then he had a squishy ball. The ones that you could squeeze, and then they anyways, I claim upon this and I wonder how I can recreate it, because I think with sensory that that's something that would fit. Well almost like a stress ball. But you know, the ones that are super squishy. And then the wrap with the random holes it makes for an interesting visual.When the ball portions of it actually squeeze through those holes

ATLAS
We haven't talked about this before — first time it's come up.

And honestly, the concept is solid. What you're describing is a compound sensory toy — the two components together create something neither does alone. The squishy core wants to escape, the rubber shell with holes gives it escape routes, and the result is this popping, bulging, dynamic texture that changes every time you squeeze. That's genuinely interesting from a sensory standpoint. Tactile, visual, and satisfying in a way a plain stress ball isn't.

The core question for recreating it is **whether you make it yourself or find a manufacturer to spec it out.** Those are pretty different paths. DIY gets you a prototype fast but the material science matters a lot — the hardness ratio between the shell and the core determines whether it actually works or just sits there. Too stiff a shell and nothing protrudes. Too soft and the whole thing collapses. The hole size and spacing matters too.

The sensory market angle is real. These kinds of toys do well with kids who have sensory processing needs — the proprioceptive feedback from squeezing plus the visual surprise of the bulging is a double hit.

What's your goal with this — prototype it yourself, or are you thinking about taking it somewhere like manufacturing or licensing?



NAVIGATE_TO:{"route":"/project/49"}
